#Organization

Civic Networks is a 501(c)3 nonprofit corporation located near Boston Massachusetts.

The people of Civic Networks are building the infrastructure, technology, organization and policies needed to establish online communities, places where people can talk, laugh, argue, and share with each other, safely.

## Formal structure

### Board of Directors

As a nonprofit. 



### Officers



### Advisory Board



### Core Team

Fundraising

Advertising

Operations

Software

Marketing

Accounting and analytics

Giving



### Extended team

Volunteers provide 



## Community organizations

Each community has a similar

### Community Leaders

Each community has an 



Community activists 



Community members



## Community Formation

Communities



#### Community Incubator

All communities begin in the Community Incubator 



#### Incubator Application Process





## Why multiple communities

Because people have an infinite variety of interests, loves, beliefs, and fears, we provide places where they can talk about work, interact with family, laugh with friends. 

People don't have the same conversation with everyone they know. Some conversations are with family, some with neighbors, some with colleagues or fellow hobbyists. In each group, a particular facet of each member comes to the fore. What is discussed differs; Interaction styles differ. 

So we're not making one social network. We're making a network of them. Each has its own unique look, vibe, policies, norms, people. You decide which is for you. 

## What we offer

We provide everything social entrepreneurs need to create and maintain online communities. Specifically 





### 1. Fundraising (priming the pump)

To start, we've organized as a nonprofit and begun raise funds. We work directly with individual donors and indirectly through crowdfunding platforms. These gifts are used to operate our networks while we develop the sustainable commercial operations that will provide both stable, long-term funding for operations, but will also allow us to fulfill our mission of helping people with targeted donations. 

### 2. Code

All our communities will build on a shared library of social network software. The software is flexible enough to implement a wide variety of networks and support a wide range of community rules. 

### 3. Hosting

All communities will be hosted in the same cloud environment, using common services. As with the use of common software, using a common platform lets us serve many people at a reasonable cost, and helps us do so without having to hire a massive team.

### 4. Community management guidance and tools

To help communities select policies to govern themselves, we've developed a collection of modular policy elements, covering things like membership rules that can be combined like lego blocks to meet the communities specific needs. 

### 5. Community building

We help our communities find and recruit members through a variety of means, including:

- cross-community promotion
- cross-community registration 
- assistance with the development of promotional media and materials
- developing a shared base of of community building expertise 

### 6. Advertising and Commerce

Operating a modern social network is wildly expensive. To ensure that our communities are self-sustaining, each is supported by our advertising system. Over time, this system will grow to incorporate a shared library of advertising software, ad-serving operations, and access to our network of advertisers.

### 7. Charity evaluation and giving

Money from donations, and money generated by advertising will be applied first to supporting the communities. Surplus funds will be donated to charities with the greatest record of effectively addressing the world's most pressing problems in the most efficient way. 

